[Music]
dg movie here
today i'm going to show you a 1998
psychological comedy drama film called
the truman show
spoilers ahead watch out and take care
kristoff the creator of the truman show
informs a documentary that although
everything around truman is fake
his emotions are genuine and his life is
still real
truman burbank is the unsuspecting star
of the show
his wife meryl and best friend marlon
support christoph's claim
without his knowledge he is one of the
most prominent personalities in the
world
the crew films his daily life with
thousands of cameras that run 24 hours
every day
the broadcast is worldwide thus people
from different countries know of him
truman is a cheerful man he works as an
insurance adjuster and lives in a
friendly neighborhood that is completely
designed and controlled by the
production team
he does not realize that seahaven island
which he considers home is a huge
television studio
this means that kristoff and his team
can control everything in it
on a typical sunny day something falls
from the sky
truman investigates the object and sees
that it is a piece of lighting equipment
for the show
but he has no idea about it and goes to
work to control the situation
the radio says that it's just an object
from a broken aircraft
the production team can also control the
news that truman listens to from his car
every aspect of his life is in christos
hands
the whole set of the show indeed looks
like a friendly neighborhood
citizens or actors have jobs have
families and mind their own business
truman is entirely clueless that
everyone around him is just actors
at work he secretly makes a phone call
to fiji looking for lauren or sylvia
garland
he fails to find her he browses through
a magazine page of a woman's face and
rips it as it resembles sylvia's eyes
at that moment his boss lawrence
instructs him to visit wells park and
harbour island to close a client deal
truman respectfully declines claiming
that he has an appointment at the
dentist
but his boss insists that he secure the
deal truman arrives at the ferry
terminal
he has second thoughts about continuing
to go when he sees a small boat
submerged by the shore
which triggers his phobia of traveling
by water so he turns back
that night truman meets up with marlon
to have drinks and play mini golf
truman reveals that he wants to quit his
job and leave the island
he tells his best friend that he has
dreams of moving to fiji a small country
in the south pacific ocean
marlon laughs at him and says that his
idea is ridiculous
as truman's life is peaceful in seahaven
to stop truman from discovering his
controlled reality
kristoff fabricates scenarios that
dissuade truman's desire to explore
such as killing off his so-called father
in a sea storm to instill phobia and by
constantly printing messages of and
broadcasting the dangers of traveling
the rain starts to fall but just on
truman as soon as he notices this
the whole sky opens up and it starts
raining completely
at home while soaking wet truman
introduces his plan to merrell
that they could travel the world and see
new things she does not think that it is
a good idea as their finances are not so
stable
meryl suggests that they should have a
baby instead that would be adventurous
enough
the following day truman sees what seems
to be like a homeless man who looks
exactly like his father
as he starts to recognize him two
bystanders take the man away
truman tries to run after them but the
citizens stop him by getting into his
way
making it too late to run to the man
completely distraught about the
situation
truman comes to his mother angela to
talk about what he saw
she dismisses the encounter as a vision
stemming from the loss of his father
and he takes comfort in her words in his
basement
truman opens a box with his keepsakes
that have pictures of him and his father
along with other memorable items truman
unwraps a red sweater inside a plastic
bag that belonged to his high school
classmate named lauren
a flashback reveals that she was
supposed to be just an extra in the show
but she caught truman's eyes which made
him fall for her instantly
however meryl was the one intended for
him this pushed the show's producers to
keep truman and lauren apart as much as
possible
while truman danced with meryl at their
prom he caught a glimpse of lauren once
again and locked her in his sight
the producers brought lauren out of the
set to stop truman from looking at her
on a steady night truman saw lauren on a
table across from him and approached her
but she told him that she could not have
a conversation with him
truman and lauren managed to go to the
beach where they had their first kiss
she told him about the truth and she
also revealed her real name
sylvia truman failed to digest what she
said
a producer of the show who acted as
sylvia's father picked her up and took
her away
he told truman that she was insane and
they will move to fiji
at that moment truman was left confused
and heartbroken
after the flashback truman opens up a
frame of his wife
behind it is a collage of facial
features that he collects to resemble
sylvia's face
the next day truman overhears the
production walkie-talkies on his car
radio
describing his exact location he becomes
paranoid as he feels watched and
monitored
instead of going to his office he
wanders around the island to reflect on
what seems to be a controlled
environment that he lives in
he observes the traffic the people
around him and the way they behave
he begins to notice the strange things
that are happening around him that he
never saw before
buses and other vehicles stop for him as
he crosses the street
truman realizes that the city somehow
revolves around his life
he enters a building and tries to get on
an elevator furiously but sees an open
wall with producers instead
confused truman is kicked out of the
building he decides to visit marlon
who works at a convenience store upon
hearing from truman and his observations
he treats him like he is just making
things up marlin assures him that
everything is fine and that no one is
following him
at home truman meryl and angela browse
through their photo albums of truman
when he was young
they reminisce memories from the past
when it's time for angela to head home
meryl assists her while truman continues
to look through the photos
he notices that in their wedding photo
meryl crossed her fingers when they
kissed
the gesture is a sign of lying or
insincerity which makes truman doubt
their marriage and relationship
because of this he follows merrill to
work the following day
after she left he rushes to the fake
hospital where she works at
this forces merrill and the other actors
to act like real doctors and stage a
simulated surgery
the staff managed to stop him and he
decides to leave a message for his wife
that he is going to fiji
truman tries several ways to get out of
seahaven he goes to a travel agency
but none of the flights is available
instead he gets on a bus to get to
chicago
but it breaks down before the journey
even starts truman's skepticism and
hostility grow even more
desperate to get out of the city truman
convinces to come with him and points
out all the strange inconsistencies in
his life
on their impromptu road trip traffic
blocks their descent
they make it to a bridge but truman is
too scared of the water
he lets merrill take the wheel as he
accelerates implausible emergencies
always seem to block their way
he then runs out of the car at a
roadblock but a group of extras knock
him to the ground and return him to his
home
merrill and truman argue he accuses her
of being part of the conspiracy
truman begins to break down while meryl
holds him at knife point
hoping to bring truman back to a
controllable state of mind marlon enters
the home to save merrill
on the same night marlin gives a
heartfelt speech to truman
trying to convince him that he is just
paranoid about things and his anxiety is
unfounded
however through an earpiece kristoff is
telling marlon exactly what to say
including i would never lie to you
truman moreover
he tells him that he is right about his
father and he found him for truman
dramatically truman's father kirk comes
out of the fog to hug him
tearfully they continue to have a moment
under the guise of having amnesia after
the boating accident
while thousands of viewers watch in
happiness from all around the world
during a televised interview with
kristoff he describes the ways that have
kept the truman show on air for the past
29 years without truman's knowledge
he reveals that truman got selected from
several unwanted pregnancies
and the corporation adopted him legally
everything on the show is for sale
and the actors integrate product
advertisements regularly
sylvia interrupts the interview by
telling kristoff that he is a
manipulative liar
truman returns to his usual self of
being funny and gets back to his regular
routines
the only difference is that he starts
sleeping in the basement after merrill
left
one night the control team of the show
realizes that he secretly escapes
through a makeshift tunnel that he made
in his basement
he escapes their cameras kristoff turns
off the transmission for the first time
in 29 years
the viewers are left in shock after this
everyone is wondering where truman went
they organize an island-wide search
where all the actors come out and
kristoff even turns on the daylight to
make it easier
in the meantime truman is on a boat in
the middle of the ocean despite his
phobia
he decides to overcome his fear to
achieve total freedom
kristoff is angered by this and cooks up
a storm to capsize the boat so that
truman would head back to the island
his plan is ineffective as truman is
strong willed to leave the island for
good
so he ends the storm truman continues to
sail but reaches the wall of the dome
instead of the open sea
however he reaches a staircase which is
the exit to the set
kristoff has no choice but to introduce
himself to truman as a voice from the
sky
he tries to persuade him that the real
world is full of lies
sick and dangerous but truman sure of
his choice
takes a bow and claims freedom defeat it
the production team ends the program
and his viewers look for something else
to watch subscribe to watch more videos
like this
turn on notifications and leave a like
it really helps the channel out
thank you for watching